here we go um it's funny i did
back when i moved into my old house um
it was a rental
and it had it had a like a an access
panel
for the networking in the house because
it had uh plugs and stuff throughout the
house
and i did a video showing how i set all
that up and how i wired a switch and
everything in there
and since then anytime we move one of
the most common comments we get is hey
jay are you gonna do another networking
setup video
well it's time welcome
to jay's two cents studio networking
featuring
cat6 because if we went cat5 you'd never
let me hear the end of it
video is brought to you by nordvpn a vpn
service i have been using
for years now look you wouldn't walk
around with a with your precious
expensive cell phone without a case on
it would you
okay i guess plenty of you do but i
digress put a case
around your internet experience why let
the isp slow you down and control your
data and control your packets
slowing down your streaming services
youtube netflix and all that sort of
stuff with article 13
and the constant up in the air no one
knows what's happening net neutrality
here in the us you can stop people from
spying on your internet connection and
your data
and slowing down your internet by
connecting to a secure
vpn now nordvpn has more than 5000
servers in 60 countries using
military-grade encryption
meaning nobody can keep an eye or spy on
your data
besides you you can get 75 off a
three-year membership and if you use my
offer code js2 cents at checkout
you get an extra month for free so put a
case around your internet
stop screwing around and letting people
control your data i'm serious
get an extra month for free and 75 off a
three-year membership
by using js2 cents at checkout so what
we're going to do today
is uh because we work off of wi-fi a lot
out here like with our phones and stuff
when we're doing things like in a pinch
we're like crap we got to download this
20 gig game upload or
update and stuff even though we can get
a good solid
600-ish megabits per second download on
wi-fi here
on wi-fi ac nonetheless which is amazing
that we can get 600 down
their router and their wireless that
they gave us really sucks
so we're going to try and improve that
situation today by mounting my nighthawk
out here running wire out of the office
back out to here
and having a switch and all sorts of
stuff because not only are we preparing
for obviously having our shops stuff
hooked up to wired internet
we are also going to be setting up
ingest stations and all that sort of
stuff
and a server and all of that but a
server doesn't serve too good if it
don't have internet to serve through
or even a connection for a lamp so
that's what we're getting on wi-fi right
now on fast.com this is actually
netflix's server
this isn't bad but i mean we pay for
we pay for a thousand right so we should
at least be getting our eight or 900 up
am i really complaining about this yes
because because their hardware
sucks because we're dealing with
dropouts and we're dealing with restarts
and i don't know if it's just getting
overworked but if phil is downloading
big files or something
and i'm trying to do something out here
or i was on a conference call actually
the other day and it dropped out on me
like four times
so obviously we we haven't done anything
with our
quote-unquote editing then yet we got a
fan and air compressor in the white and
gold build
all right so my idea here was that i
could just shove this thing back up
through there i had to
i'd have to make that it doesn't make
that hole bigger because
the end's not going to fit through right
yeah he did exactly what i thought he
did he just screwed it into the drywall
see just like yeah oh man
they charge you premium for these
installs and then they do this [__]
i technically could have just gone up
here too okay oh
no no that's not a problem
the problem is that he drilled that hole
you don't know the honest truth because
he could have just used that one
what the hell man
oh my god and i'm and i'm the idiot i
didn't even think about that too when i
was watching him installing
i kind of just was like oh yeah and who
drills it straight to the drywall using
a freaking
wood screws this is the wrong kind of
box for this
there's different types of boxes you can
get for these sorts of things and what
you should be putting in a drywall box
like this are the ones that when you
tighten it up
the arms go bloop and they open up so
then it can't pull out
let's go to home depot because now i can
get the stripper the
wire stripper and the other one too
right
yeah why not i got some ones
all right so we just went and got the
correct box so this is what they use
and i mean it just makes me feel bad
that an amateur like myself can do a
better job than somebody that was paid
to do this so this is the box you would
put in something like this if you're
only anchoring it to the drywall
these little tabs go down like this and
then as you tighten up these screws the
tabs come out and then they will pinch
like that so that's how it's gonna end
up being in the wall and then what i did
was i got a blank plate cover
to cover up the ugly hole that
the cable installer did so let's go
ahead
and get this set up now i also have
this fish tape i have to
get the coaxial another coaxial but the
cat sticks up through the ceiling
and then throw it over the restroom
through the
um drop ceiling that's what it's called
drop ceiling
phil don't step on any of this we're
going back to home depot for the third
time today no
well that's two ladders in one ah
okay
there you go internet right here in the
video that's what anytime snapchat
try not to cut myself on any of the
sharp metal up here
i don't know where it's going it could
be like going sideways
okay we clearly hit something
there's so much fiberglass right here
hey
yeah teamwork after you put the camera
down and you came out here it worked
well so here's the end of the fish tape
coming up through the wall and now i'm
going to take this coil and i'm just
going to
throw it over the other [__]
they're good we're fine phil relax
they got a little tangle
yeah i did it all right so now i'm just
going to tape this
to our fish tape and then we can pull
this end back through
[Applause]
neato there
see what happens when you do it the
right way so i want to talk about
something real quick
in this build series where we've worked
on our own stuff
there's been a couple of comments of
like jay why are you doing this yourself
um jay you can afford a contractor why
why are you why are you wasting your
time
you could be making content so the irony
about those comments being made on a
video you're watching
saying that we're not making content
while doing the thing that
we were making content while doing i'm a
diy-er
if you haven't noticed by now i diy
everything that i can
so that's why we do this and plus some
people learn some things along the way
and i've had some people comment that
hey
this video is really helpful you
actually taught me something i've always
kind of wondered so that's why we do it
it takes longer but we make content
while we're doing it we save money while
we're doing it
and it's fun i'll be honest it's fun all
right let's go ahead and pull up a
schematic for cat 6 because i don't know
it
off the top of my head and let's put
some ends and you can see
where the cable comes down this is where
i threw it over and you can see
that this is where they just kind of
stapled into the wall we'll sort of be
doing the same thing
the only cable they had for cat6 was
blue i would have gotten white but
they had blue so yeah let's do it
[Applause]
so we should just be able to go like
boop
boop boop
boo doo hey but that's okay because
we need to actually go farther because
we've got feed through
plugs oh that's why there's a little
finger hole
oh is cat6 two cables
or eight
[Laughter]
these are going through the granite core
so since network cable is twisted pair
and it's
the even whether it be cat 5 or cat 6
the colors are pretty much
[Laughter]
all right so it doesn't matter if it's a
cat 6 or cat 5e
they're all twisted pair so you've got
obviously you've got a color and then a
colored stripe that matches and so
the order of these pairs does indeed
matter now we're going to be doing the
uh was it 56b t5c
specification it doesn't really matter i
don't believe on either end
at least the way i've always done these
is as long as it's the same on both ends
[__] hell these strippers
are taking all my money i was just
saying it doesn't
the way i've always done it in the past
is long they're the same on both ends
there's different types of
plug-ins that you can get too and the
ones that are the most difficult in my
opinion to work with are the ones that
you have to cut off like
just have a quarter inch showing because
then you have to have them all flattened
in the right angle and push it all the
way in hope it's seated all the way and
crimp it down
well these are feed through which means
that the wires are going to feed right
through the connector and stick out the
other end and i can put it down as far
as i need
and then when i crimp it it'll cut off
the excess so that's the way i'm doing
it
my first time trying feed through i've
always i've always seen it i never used
it because i
it's been a while since i've had to make
any cables we got a hundred foot of cat
six and
it's funny we could have gotten away
with cat 5 just fine
because the difference between cat 6 and
cat 5 is signal loss over distance
and both are capable of 10 gigabit
in these distances at which our cable
runs are so we could have gotten away
with cat5 just fine
i swear to god i only spent more money
to do cat six to fend off some of the
comments i guarantee we would get
if we didn't do cat six like i swear to
god i caved and i hate myself for it
i hate myself as much as i hate the
person out there that would comment
when did you get used what do you want
you to get ticks
so anyway i guess we both lose right the
fourth of july
did
you're not helping phil just like i said
in our like
our electric wiring video some
electricians out there is like man you
guys are dumb this is so easy
and some network guy is out there just
like dog [__] do this in my sleep
all right there's our orange stripe
next to that it's all bent
there's our orange yeah now that network
engineer is commenting
yeah oh my god
we used to have to make cap six uphill
both ways
in the snow
oh [__]
[Music]
[Laughter]
all that to do to plug it into the back
of the panel yes i know i could have
gotten the 110
type i just don't like that one
oh cause jay likes this one so much
better
well i mean you're trying new things
right never know that's why yeah that's
it
all right so we do have a switch that's
going to go in here the switch will then
plug
into that which will go out to the
studio the nighthawk will be out into
the studio and then we'll have to run
off the nighthawk switch to like
probably another switch in the studio so
it's gonna be like switch to switch to
switch but that's okay it'll still work
perfectly fine
it's because it's solid you can like
straighten out the strands pretty easy
easy so we have this much more cable
that we can make uh
ends with or uh cables with if we need
to
so let me move my tools plug in the
nighthawk and see if it works
oh wait we don't have an internet light
a five a five and a two yeah we don't
have internet
why all the connectors everything is
there
well okay phil happened to point out i
was using the coaxial stripper
and not the actual rj stripper
so we think i may have accidentally cut
through a cable or a wire or two
or a pair or something so we're just
going to redo both ends now
all right try this again
all right well i redid the ends on both
[Applause]
now we have internet so here we go
nice all right let's test it on the
laptop
well fastest staying in the sixes and
sevens a lot more
i don't think we need to deploy wi-fi
six in our environment
so we need to finish now by tacking down
the wire
all right here's the test do we get an
activity light and yes this is a cat5
cable i know i still have to make the
other ones but i'm not doing that today
because i'm tired i'm fat and i'm hungry
[Music]
all right so we're going to be using 100
feet of cable to go from
here to here because i don't have a
short cable yet i don't want to make
another one
yet because this is all just temporary
that cable's too hot man there's too
much there's too much dimension on the
line
do you know what this does to my cable
management brain um the point of this
video
is so that we can make sure everything
works that our cables work that our
wi-fi works that our switch works and
all that stuff works
before we go and waste any time setting
up our desks and stuff because obviously
we just set up our office here
okay everything's set up with that
stupid hundred foot cable but it all
works the wireless works the wired works
we are
good to go so all that's left to do now
is to go in and reset the ssid and
and make sure everything's configured do
some channel uh
searching to make sure everything is uh
like there's no interference and stuff
nearby
but we have now got the foundation for
our network setup set here now i know
one of the common questions here is
going to be but but jay what about your
server what about your server room your
server rack
this i'm not linus tech tips i don't
have a server room i don't have a server
rack i'll have a wanok server and all
that stuff so
we're a small operation we literally
have two people right now that actually
work on videos and
90 of it's done through phil and so we
will probably have
literally a server machine kind of
probably sitting over there on the floor
i don't know we'll figure that all out
um when the time comes worst case
scenario too it'd probably end up being
in the room with phil in the office um
hooked up to that 10g that 10 gig so
we'll have 10 gig all
local right there to each other and then
what we'll have over here or somewhere
is just an ingest station so if we're
working on something we have a new
project going
you take the card out let it ingest into
the server and he'll be working off the
server
moving forward thanks for watching this
video again these work vlogs are about
getting work done
and experiencing doing it ourself
obviously and you guys might learn
something
along the way like us misusing that
stripper which was causing me a problem
i misused i mistreated that stripper man
that's so bad that's so terrible phil
i kept i wasn't even thinking that that
was you send your angry letters to phil
all right i'm gonna go guys
thanks for watching and we will we'll
see you in the next one by the time you
see this i'm probably in the bahamas
so wow humble brag much hey i've never
taken a vacation like that so